if you're just getting started with our
software or you're considering our
sketching solutions but fine getting
started to be a little overwhelming this
video is just for you when you launch
apex for the first time it may feel like
there are so many things to choose from
all the buttons on the command pad and
the toolbars all the options that are
contained within the ribbon menus and
this dialog that's prompting you to do
something but you don't know quite what
to do just yet can make things feel a
little confusing well you've come to the
right place because a PEC sketch is
really very easy to use but like any
program it just takes a little practice
but mostly some understanding of the
basics the basic concepts are defined
the area establish a point of beginning
and draw the area we will go into a lot
more detail in all of these basic
concepts in future videos but right now
we want to get through just the basics
of defining an area establish a point of
beginning and drawing the area to define
an area the basic rule of thumb is if
you want a calculation for it you have
to define it this is where you choose
the area type the area level it's
calculation type any auto posting
options that you might want to use you
choose the name and you choose a line
style once you've done that you click OK
clicking ok completes the first basic
concept now it's all about establishing
a point of beginning unlike pencil and
paper you don't have to keep in mind
where to start in Apex it really doesn't
matter especially when you're starting
off your sketch just pick a place press
ENTER and the cursor will change from a
pointer to a crosshair indicating that
it's ready to draw but you can draw the
area with your arrow keys I'm pressing
the down arrow key left arrow key up
arrow key or you can use your mouse
or you can input a distance like 24 and
notice in the lower left-hand corner is
showing 24 and a direction right arrow
it draws that line and you can press
ENTER to anchor the line and enter again
to anchor the dimension the next line is
9.8 feet down enter one time to anchor
the line one more time to anchor the
dimension four feet to the left
enter enter seven feet down into enter
and feet to the right enter enter five
feet down enter twice 16 feet to the
right enter twice 18 feet down enter
twice 46 feet to the left
enter twice and when it comes to the
last line press a to auto-close place
that last dimension and now you're
presented with the auto posting labels
that you have for that area so I'll take
this first floor label and I'll place it
right here and click and I'll take its
calculation and place it as well and
that completes the three basic concepts
now again in future videos we will
expand upon these basic concepts in much
more detail but what I wanted to show
you here was that without clicking a
whole lot of things on the interface
itself you can get started and complete
your areas in no time and you'll start
to realize that the user interface that
you see here is really more a matter of
convenience than it is an indication of
how difficult to program is